On March 22, the Department of State amended the E.O. 13224 and FTO designations of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) to include the aliases Amaq News Agency and Al Hayat Media Center. (See Chapter 5, Foreign Terrorist Organizations, for further information on ISIS.)
On April 15, the Department of State designated the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) as an FTO. See Chapter 5, Foreign Terrorist Organizations, for further information on the IRGC.) The Department of the Treasury designated the IRGC as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist (SDGT) on October 13, 2017, based on activities it undertakes to assist in, sponsor, or provide financial, material, or technological support for, or financial or other services to or in support of, the IRGC-Qods Force (IRGC-QF), which had previously been designated as an SDGT.
On July 2, the Department of State amended the E.O. 13224 and FTO designations of Jundallah to include the aliases Jaysh al-Adl, Jeysh al-adl, Army of Justice, Jaish ul-Adl, Jaish al-Adl, Jaish Aladl, and Jeish al-Adl, and concluded that Jaysh al-Adl should be used as the group’s primary name. (See Chapter 5, Foreign Terrorist Organizations, for further information on Jaysh al-Adl.)
On December 20, in the course of reviewing and maintaining the designation of the al‑Mulathamun Battalion, the Department of State concluded that the pre-existing alias al-Murabitoun should be used as the group’s primary name.

In addition to continued terrorist activity in Afghanistan and Pakistan, South Asia in 2019 saw a volatile mix of insurgent attacks punctuated by major incidents of terrorism in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir (now known as the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir) and in Sri Lanka.  A February 14 suicide bombing attack against an Indian paramilitary convoy in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir led to military hostilities and heightened tensions between India and Pakistan.  Although ISIS lost the last remnants of its territory in Syria in March, it announced new branches in Pakistan and India in May and claimed responsibility for the Easter bombings in Sri Lanka in April.